# TE_World2

## Simulation of transposons in a bacterial cell population.

This code was used to generate the results reported in Kremer et al. [1].  That publication describes the operation of 
this software and the paraters used by it.

The code runs with Python 2.7.12+. 
Other versions of Python may or may not work.
In particular, any version of Python 3 will not work due to the format of the print statements (other unspecified versions of Python 2 may not work as well).
It is worth considering using [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) to swiftly switch to a valid Python version.

You can run any of the experiments from the original paper from the command line by chaning to the experiments directory:

e.g. `cd PaperExperiments/XHExp001`

And then, running the `TESim.py` python script from within the experiment's directory.

e.g. `python2.7 ../../TEWorldCodeV2/TESim.py > expG.001.log`

This will re-run the experiment with the same parameters, but with a different random seed.  It will over-write the log
file and the `state-0000000.gz file`.  It will also generate a `trace.csv` file, a `\*.pyc` file, and subsequent `state-` files. 

You can also re-run the experiment with the same random seed by changing the value of `saved` in the 
`parameters.py` file to be `"state-0000000.gz"` (assuming you didn't just over-write that file by 
running without modifying the saved variable).

The following file will be generated by this process:

`trace.csv` - comma separated varialbe file tracing a number of variables on a per cycle basis (you will need to read
  the source code to understand what each variable means)
  


## References

[[1](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341491913_Transposable_element_persistence_via_potential_genome-level_ecosystem_engineering)] Kremer SC, Linquist S, Saylor B, Elliot TA, Gregory TR, Cottenie K. 2020. Transposable element persistence via 
potential genome-level ecosystem engineering. Under review.
